Here is the next part.
We're gonna go to the hamburger menu,
all right?
And over lunch,
I'd like you guys to try working on this.
We have an article with the original code,
That talks about how to make
a hamburger menu, all right?
So you can go through and look at that.
We have the original code pen,
which I've stripped down a little bit.
Well, this is the original code pen,
just to show you what that looked like.
It was a whole web page.
Notice that the menu up here on the top
has that hamburger button, right?
Okay, and
then I gave you a beginning code pen here.
So I stripped out all that extra stuff and
I gave you just this part of it here.
So we have pretty much
something that starts and
behaves exactly as we want it to behave,
right?
We have different links.
We have a logo that should be
going in here for site title.
I believe everything is up here
in this page for you to work on.
All the JavaScript is here and working.
What I'd like for
you to do then is I'd like you to
make a thing that looks like this.
So we have our icon.
The icon is here at mobile dimensions,
just the icon.
And the hamburger button,
and when we get to desktop,
looks like this is gonna be what's
here for tablet and mobile.
When you get to desktop it
should look like this, okay?
And I've given you some things to
think about as you walk through it.
But I'd like you to give this a shot and
see if you can at least
build this part for mobile.
The audio player exercise,
we had the same process where we picked
out an audio player from the Internet,
we forked it, we looked at the code, we
added a little HTML for styling purposes.
And made sure we didn't
break any JavaScript, and so
forth in order to get our
audio player put together.
We're gonna use the same methodology
now for our hamburger button.
We've found a hamburger button online, and
now we're gonna go about styling that.
So let's start with a few questions.
So first of all, hopefully,
you've had a chance to take
a look at the HTML and so forth.
And you can of course can get your
code pen and practical.css.education.
This is Chapter 4E, the hamburger menu.
We are looking at our beginning code pen.
The opening code pen here,
the HTML is pretty simple.
We have a header, e have a site title,
we have a button.
This is gonna eventually the hamburger
button or it's hidden from view,
depending on the size of our window.
And then we have our navigation, right?
Okay, so pretty easy to understand.
Then underneath, down here we have some
css, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And then we have a media query
with a max width of 48 REMs, okay,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
that that one media query there.
Okay, so my first question to you is this.
Is this mobile first, or
is this desktop first?
>> Desktop.
>> Why do you say desktop first?
>> Because instead of going up in
our media queries with min-width,
we're actually taking all of our styles,
and
then only applying things
when a max-width is reached.
>> Correct.
>> Just scaling down the browser
as opposed to scaling up.
>> Correct.
So what's outside of the media query here?
All these styles.
These are the desktop styles which is
the opposite of what we have been doing.
And what's inside the media query,
all of these are the actual mobile styles.
Make sense?
Okay, so
anytime you run into desktop first,
that doesn't mean you can't use it
with your mobile first approach.
It just means maybe your hamburger
menu is desktop first and
everything else is gonna wind
up being built mobile first.
It is really not a tragedy.
But you can rewrite the code if you want.
So if you want everything to be mobile
first, or you have that rule at work, you
could go through the process of rewriting
this, take things out of the media query,
put other things into media queries,
yada, yada, yada.
We aren't gonna bother with that.
We're just gonna keep it desktop first
because it works just fine the way it is.
All right, sounds good.
How about comments on the HTML structure,
what do people think about
the structure of this document?
Anything we need to fix here?
Does it look semantic?
Does it look reasonable for a navbar?
So if you don't normally use an unordered
list for your navbars, you should.
Navigation is a list of links and
they can be visited in any order.
So, therefore, it is an unordered list.
That is why we do that.
I know a lot of people just put in links,
and then they just
magically line up in a row.
This is the correct way to
mark up a navigation bar.
And of course, that button there is
going to be our hamburger button, and
then we have our site title which
we'll need to swap out for our logo.
Fair enough, okay.
Let's take a quick peek at our JavaScript.
And this JavaScript is lot simpler
than the audio JavaScript, right?
We're just gonna look at it just real
quick to see what it's selecting here and
what we can not change in
order to keep this working.
So you see here in line two it says
getElementById main menu open.
So we definitely need to keep
that ID in place in order for
this JavaScript to work.
Anything else here on this JavaScript
that we need to worry about?
Anybody?
Looks pretty clear, right?
Pretty clear.
That's the only thing that gets selected
is that main menu opens, so very good.
And we see it show up
here in the code a lot.
And then these icons.
So there is an icon here for
this hamburger button, right?
Where is that coming from because
it's not coming from the HTML, right?
We take a look here,
there is nothing here that calls for
any kind of image, is there?
So let's take a look and
see if we can find it.
It's probably gonna be
in our mobile styles.
And sure enough right here on line 71,
there is this content, this funky/630.
That's a Unicode code
[LAUGH] Unicode code.
That indicates that is a hamburger button,
so that's where that's coming from.
When we click the hamburger button and
our menu slides in view,
we have an odd box that shows up here,
that should be the closebutton.
For whatever reason,
I don't know if it's the font or whatever,
the closebutton never
seems to work correctly.
And I am not sure where that
shows up here in this code.
Which might be the whole
problem come to think of it.
[LAUGH] It just never shows up.
So that is something we'll wanna fix,
we'll want them have
a working closebutton.
So this is the approach that this
particular author has taken.
They're using Unicode codes to call for
some of these icons.
So just something again to keep in mind,
that we don't need to come up with SVGs or
anything like that.